At a glance 
Credit cards let you borrow money up to a set limit, which must be repaid. You’ll be charged interest if you don’t pay your full statement balance by its due date, and you’ll often be penalized for late payments. Positive payment activity can help build your credit scores.
Credit Card Insider receives compensation from advertisers whose products may be mentioned on this page. Advertiser relationships do not affect card evaluations. Advertising partners do not edit or endorse our editorial content. Content is accurate to the best of our knowledge when it's published. Learn more in our Editorial Guidelines.
The information related to Journey® Student Rewards from Capital One® has been collected by Credit Card Insider and has not been reviewed or provided by the issuer or provider of this product.
You’ve heard your friend rave about her travel rewards credit card, which lets her escape to Hawaii for free each year.
And you’ve heard about the money your friend saves with his cash back credit card, which earns him money back on every purchase he makes.
You’d like to visit Hawaii, and you’d like to get cash back — but you’d also like to avoid the murky pit of credit card debt.
So, how does a credit card work? And should you get one?
How Does a Credit Card Work?
You can think of a credit card like a short-term loan from a credit card issuer.
Unlike a debit card, which takes money from your checking account, a credit card uses the issuer’s money and then bills you later. (This also makes them a stronger ally in cases of fraud.)
Because your card activity is reported to the credit bureaus (which doesn’t happen with debit cards), using credit cards responsibly can help you build good credit. This credit history will help you when it comes time to apply for bigger loans like a mortgage, or when you’re applying for a job or apartment.
Credit Card Vocabulary 101
Here are some terms that will help you really understand how credit cards work:
Credit limit: The amount of money you can spend on your card at one time, or the size of your ongoing loan. It’s determined by the credit card issuer. The better your credit and the higher your income, the higher your credit limit may be. (Read about how to increase your credit limit here.)
Balance: How much you’ve spent on your card and haven’t paid back (also known as credit card debt). If you’ve made $300 in purchases — and haven’t yet paid it off — your credit card balance will be $300.
Available credit: How much you can spend before you hit your credit limit. If your credit limit is $1,000, and you have a balance of $300, your available credit is $700. If you make a $200 payment, it’ll go back up to $900. (This is why it’s called a “revolving” line of credit.)
Billing cycle: A set period during which you make purchases. After the period is over, you’ll receive a bill, and will have about a month to pay it.
Statement due date: A date on your statement (credit card bill) by which you must pay at least the minimum payment to keep your account in good standing.
Minimum payment: The amount of your credit card bill that you’re required to pay each month, which is usually a small percentage of your total balance. If you don’t pay this amount by the due date, the issuer can charge you a late fee. If the payment is late enough, it may report a “late payment” to the credit bureau — a mistake that can stay on your credit reports for seven years. Though you should always make at least the minimum payment, we recommend paying your statement balance in full to avoid interest charges.
APR: This stands for Annual Percentage Rate. If you don’t pay your statement balance in full each month, this is the interest rate you’ll pay on that remaining debt after the statement’s due date.