I guess their computers could read the pre-printed codes, but a slip that was handwritten took 30 seconds longer to process.
The first time they tried to charge me a $1 fee I asked if the fee could be waived.
They said it couldn’t, so I canceled the transaction, closed my account and walked out with a couple grand in cash, which I promptly deposited in the bank across the street.
They changed their policy a few months later, but I never went back.
Fees are one of the biggest money makers banks have, and they fiercely guard their ability to make those charges (see some of the recent talk in Congress about limiting banking fees).
Other Common Bank Fees Include:
Account and maintenance fees. Usually assessed on a monthly basis.
Overdraft fees. A potentially nasty fee, usually in the mid $20 to $40 range per overdraft. Some banks assess debit card transactions from the highest to the lowest instead of by when the transaction cleared, causing more overdraft fees to be assessed.
Bounced checks and insufficient funds fees. Most bounced check fees are similar to overdraft fees, and range from $20-$40.
Late fees. This can be for mortgages, credit cards, or other loan payments. These fees can be assessed if they receive payment as much as a few minutes after the close of business.
Minimum balance fees. Some banks charge a penalty if your balance drops below a certain limit. This can be a charge for the month, or result in a lower interest rate.
ATM Fees. These range anywhere from $1 – $4. Here are tips to avoid ATM fees.
Paper statement fees. Some banks now charge customers a fee to receive a paper statement instead of receiving an electronic copy (which is free). They simply pass the postage and processing fees on to the customer. (Note: Some banks only offer electronic statements).
Loan application and closing fees. These can range from a few bucks for a small loan to several grand for a large mortgage.
and a host of other fees.
Overdraft fees changing.
A recent law changes how overdraft fees can be assessed.
Read more about new overdraft fee laws.
Complimentary Services – Investing, Insurance, and More
Most banks also offer IRAs and other investment products including mutual funds, CDs (Certificates of Deposit), brokerage services, and other investments.
Some banks charge higher investment fees than many companies that specialize in investing, which is why I believe it is usually better to open an IRA with a brokerage firm instead of a bank.