A salad portion provides our body with half of the daily magnesium requirement. The mineral serves as an activator for several hundred enzymes that control metabolic processes, and it ensures that the muscles relax after each contraction. In addition, it provides us with an abundant supply of intestine-healthy fibre and important B vitamins.Kitchen utensils 
2 Pots (with lid), 1 Measuring cups, 1 Slotted spoon, 1 Cutting board, 1 Small knife, 1 Teaspoon, 1 Salad bowl, 1 Wooden spoon, 1 Whisk, 1 Tablespoon, 1 Sieve, 1 Small bowl, 1 Large knife 
Potato  is  growing  most of  the land  after  T. Aman  rice  harvest in  Northern  area, specially  Rangpur region  in 
Bangladesh.  Here,  farmers  don’t  sacrifice  potato  cultivation  replace  other  crops  due  to  less  profitable.  In 
cropping pattern sense, potato is base crop of this region in Rabi season. The most of the lands don’t get free to 
cultivate by the  Rabi  vegetables due  to over potato  cultivation.  So, our thymes, some Rabi vegetables will be 
cultivated inter crop with potato. For this regions, cucumber include with potato and also other Rabi vegetables 
grow in potato field as like radish, red amaranth, onion, garlic and Indian spinach etc. as inter cropping system. 
Only this way to increase vegetables crops with inter crop with potato. For the benefit of the farmers different 
vegetables and spices crop with different combination with  potato.  Cucumber and other spices  and vegetables 
grow  in  potato  field  with  inter  cropping  and  find  out  the  best  intercropping  for  this  regions  of  farmers. 
Intercropping increases crop yield per unit area by intensifying the use of land. It does not only contribute to 
increase the  productivity,  but also increases the farmer’s  income  (Villarel,  1976). Potato is an  important  tuber 
crop  in  Bangladesh.  Intercropping  potato  with  different  vegetables  in  common  practice  in  the  Comilla  and 
Chandpur  district  of Bangladesh.  But  there  is  problem  to  identify  the  appropriate  vegetables  and  spices  to 
intercrop  with  potato  farmers  intercrop  potato  with  cucurbits  only.  In  study  some  short  duration  leafy 
vegetables  (like-  radish,  red  amaranth  and  spinach  and  spices  i.e.  garlic, onion)  will be  sown between  two 
cucumber  pits.  Most  of  the  farmers  intercrop  vegetables  mainly  tuber  maturation  period.  According  to 
Midmore  et al.  (1988) reported improved  tuber  yields  under  sparse  shade  (25%  reduction  in  solar  energy) 
throughout  the  potato  crop.  Cucumber  plants reduce  the  light  on  potato  canopy  which may  improve  potato 
yield.  The  objectives  of the  study were  (i). to  find out  the  most  suitable  vegetables  and  spices  for  potato-
cucumber intercropping to get higher economic return and (ii). to incorporated  leafy vegetables  and  spices  as 
additional crop in potato cucumber intercropping.  
 