lthough Royal Cup coffee can be savored in fine restaurants all across this great nation, we’re nothing if not proud Birminghamians. This magical city we’re fortunate to call home is currently in the middle of a great food renaissance, which has attracted national attention – from the San Francisco Chronicle to the New York Times. This “foonaissance” (nailed it) was born when creativity, entrepreneurship and Southern traditions collided during a time when our city was truly ready to taste and embrace change.
While we certainly can’t take credit for the Frank Stitts and Chris Hastings of the world, you’d better believe we’re going to hang our hat on providing many of Birmingham’s best eateries with delicious coffees and teas.
Got a fancy date? We’ll be there with a 160-degree cup to help heat things up.
Enjoying breakfast with the kiddos? We’ll be there to keep you energized with the only cold brew you can safely (and legally) enjoy on the drive home.  
Headed out to a power lunch? We’ll be there too, because coffee is for closers.
The next time you find yourself with a healthy appetite and a suspicious lack of caffeine in your bloodstream, take our advice and try one of these wonderful local establishments in which great coffee and cuisine converge.
Holler & Dash Biscuit House
There is literally nothing better than pairing a hot cup of H.C. Valentine coffee with Holler & Dash’s decadent Strawberry & Dash breakfast. Fair warning, though – if you aren’t careful, you may be in store for a major sugar crash after downing this tasty dish. So play it safe, pick up one of our cold brew coffees on the way out and ride that caffeine high all day long!
Big Bad Breakfast
If you haven’t checked out this local phenomenon, then you, my friend, are seriously missing out. The brainchild of James Beard award-winning chef John Currence, Big Bad Breakfast is one of the baddest breakfast joints in the city. Known for their flaky, fresh biscuits, delicious Royal Cup coffee and custom-created meats, you pretty much can’t go wrong with any item on the menu.  