We are continually disrupting the flow of fresh water. It no longer reaches the places that it used to and to the people and wildlife that need it. Many rivers no longer reach the sea. Mega dams block entire rivers and by taking too much water upstream we don't leave enough for those downstream. Being smart about how we farm and rethinking how we dam rivers will allow the flow to return.
The hunt for extraterrestrial life has turned to our own cosmic backyard

More from Popular Mechanics
The peanut butter pump

It seems there are few places in the solar systems without some amount of water, whether liquid or solid. There's even a small amount of water vapor on Venus, something like 20 parts-per-million. And every time a source of liquid water is found or suggested, it brings up the chances of life on that world because of the way water acts as a solvent – facilitating the metabolic processes at the most basic level of life. That's why the hunt for extraterrestrial life (quite doubtfully of an intelligent sort, though we've found some quite remarkable octopuses on Earth) has turned from distant solar systems to our own cosmic backyard.
Here's the breakdown of all the water we know about in the solar system, and what form it comes in.
Oceans 
All But Confirmed:
Europa
Europa has been the biggest contender for life for years now, with a craggy icy crust hinting in almost every way at an ocean below. Thanks to the tidal effects from Jupiter (friction inside the moon created by the pull of the planet's gravity), the water would be kept liquid and possibly even warm below the icy crust, helped by possible hydrothermal vents.
There's been some evidence of ice geysers shooting from the surface of Europa, as well as evidence that the ocean could have Hadley Cells—warm water radiating from the moon's equator. Europa could provide the possibility not just for life, but, if the conditions were just right, even complex life.
Enceladu
Ganymede is the largest moon in our solar system, bigger than even the planet Mercury. Astronomers had long suspected that an ocean lies beneath the 100-mile-thick ice crust at the surface, and in a new study, aurorae activity suggest that the ocean is somewhat warm and definitely salty. Unlike Europa, no ice geyser activity has yet been spotted. This could be because of a reduced tidal effect on the moon, which is further from Jupiter than Europa. Unlike Europa, it doesn't have the cross-hatched icy surface showing consistent geologic surface activity. Still, the signs are good that Ganymede is harboring an ocean.