
As nouns the difference between cash and money is that cash is money in the form of notes/bills and coins, as opposed to cheques/checks or electronic transactions or cash can be any of several low-denomination coins of india or china, especially the chinese copper coin while money is a legally or socially binding conceptual contract of entitlement to wealth, void of intrinsic value, payable for all debts and taxes, and regulated in supply. 

As a verb cash is to exchange (a check/cheque) for money in the form of notes/bills or cash can be to disband. 
“Where can I cash a money order near me today?”
If you need money today and have received a payment in the form of a money order, that’s probably the first thing you wonder about.
In this post, we cover how to cash a money order, as well as the best places (Walmart isn’t the only store!) where you can cash a money order.
Table of Contents


What is a Money Order?
Before we get to the list, for those of you not familiar with this form of payment, a money order is like a check, in both appearance and function.
The difference between the two is that money orders are prepaid, so they’re generally thought to be a safer form of payment than a check.
How do you Cash a Money Order?
If you want to change your money order into cash, then here’s what to do:
Step 1: Take the money order to a place that cashes them.
Step 2: Once you are ready to give the money order to the agent, you’ll need to endorse the money order by signing your name on the back of it.
Step 3: You’ll need to show a valid ID to confirm that you’re authorized to cash the money order. Each place will likely have it owns rules as to what constitutes a valid ID. Government-issued IDs, such as a driver’s license, passport, permanent resident card or military ID are the best option.
Step 4: Pay any fees required for the service.
Step 5: Take your cash!
It’s important to note that the name on your ID must match the name on the money order, regardless of where you cash it.
So make sure that the sender puts your name on the money order in the same way it appears on your photo ID.
Also, if there’s an address field on the money order, then make sure your photo ID has the same address too.
Places to Cash Money Orders
While there are many places that sell money orders, there are far less that actually cash them.
So, this can mean that you’re much more limited when it comes to cashing money orders than you are when it comes to buying them.

For example, there are many grocery stores, such as Publix, Meijer and Winn-Dixie that sell money orders, but do not cash them.
However, you still do have quite a few options.
Below, we’ve listed places that cash money orders.
1. At your Bank or Credit Union
If you want to cash your money order for free, the best place, arguably, is at your local bank or credit union. Since banks have large amounts of money on the premises, they’re likely to be able to pay the full amount at once.
Even if you aren’t an account holder at a bank, you can still cash a money order at most banks. But you will generally need to pay a small fee.
And, to cash large money orders, you usually need to be an account holder.
Some of the popular banks that do that include:
Citibank
Commerce Bank
HSBC
SunTrust
TD Bank
Bank of America
Capital One
Chase Bank
Regions Bank
US Bank
2. At the Money Order Issuer (Post Office, MoneyGram and Western Union)
So what if you don’t have a bank account? How do you cash a money order without a bank account?
If you don’t have a bank account or you don’t have a branch nearby, then it’s a good idea to cash the money at a location of the organization that issued the money order.
Money orders are issued by a number of different places, but some of the most popular include:
MoneyGram
Western Union
Post Office
Do be aware though that not every place that issues money orders cashes them, as we mentioned above.
Here are a few popular places that issue money orders which, at some locations also cash them:
Western Union
Western Union sells money orders, but some of its locations may also be able to cash them.
You can contact them to find out if they cash money orders.
It’s important to note that Western Union states that not all of its locations, including locations where you can buy a money order, are able to cash them.
Find a local office: You can find your nearest Western Union location here.
At the Post Office
If you have a USPS money order, then going to your local post office is a great option for cashing a money order, as it’s so convenient. Some post offices won’t charge a fee for USPS money orders either.
You may want to call ahead if you have a large money order to cash.
USPS usually charges around $1.25 for money orders up to $500, or $1.65 up to $1,000.
Find a local office: You can find the closest local USPS here.
MoneyGram
MoneyGram is another popular issuer of money orders. And it also cashes money orders at some of its locations.
Find a local office: You can find your nearest MoneyGram location here.
When you go directly to the issuer, it can reduce the amount of fees you have to pay. In fact, sometimes it can be free! And, you’re more likely to get the full amount of cash faster.
Just check your money order to see who issued it and then visit one of that places locations.
3. Walmart
Yes, the same place where you can get your keys made, also cashes MoneyGram money orders. There are so many Walmart stores around, so you’re likely to be able to find one near you.
Find a local office: Find your nearest Walmart store here.
4. Kroger
Through Money Services, you can cash money orders at Kroger, and other store brands in the Kroger family.
You can find Money Services desks in more than 2,000 Kroger and other Kroger brand stores
At Money Services desks you can cash a money order, by following the steps we mentioned above. You can get the money as cash or have it loaded onto a prepaid card.
There’s a fee charged, but the fees and limits vary by state, so call or check at your local store for details about cashing money orders.
Find a local office: Use this tool to find your nearest Kroger store that features a Money Services desk.
5. Other Stores to Cash a Money Order
Above, we’ve mentioned a few places to cash money orders.
And, we also mentioned that the amount of places where you can actually cash money orders is much more limited, compared to the number of places where you can buy them.
Another thing to consider is looking at grocery stores, retailers and even some liquor stores and gas stations, that offer small financial transaction services.
There are a lot of stores that do that, like:
Stop and Shop: Find your nearest store here.
Hy-Vee: Find your nearest store here.
WinCo Foods: Find your nearest store here.
It’s always worth calling your local stores, in general, to see which ones do offer money transactions and how much they charge.