"The System of Doctor Tarr and Professor Fether" is a dark comedy short story by the American author Edgar Allan Poe. First published in Graham's Magazine in November 1845, the story centers on a naïve and unnamed narrator's visit to a mental asylum in the southern provinces of France. 
The difference between Doctor and Professor is in the rank they hold at a university setting. Doctor is an honorary title that can be conferred on anyone having completed his PhD, or doctorate, as it is commonly known. However, there is a common perception that only people having passed the MBBS course and then having done specialization in some field of medicine are referred to as doctors. Many people think that the professional who writes prescriptions and whom they consult when they are ill is a doctor while it is wrong to call a professor of poetry a doctor. This article attempts to find out the differences between a doctor and a professor to make it clear for the readers.
Who is a Doctor?
Anyone who has passed his doctorate exam in any field of study can be technically referred to as a doctor. A doctorate is the highest possible degree in a field of study and, if there is a doctor of economics, it means that he is the person who has done a doctorate in economics. Thus, there are not just medical doctors in the real world but doctors in all fields of studies. If you encounter a doctor of literature, it only means that the person has achieved the highest possible degree in the study of literature. Doctor in this sense is an honorary degree. It is a degree one gets to achieve through research work.
Murali T S provides a good dictionary definition type of answer. I will offer a more general and a bit broader answer from my perspective as a long-time student and recent part-time professor (a.k.a., adjunct professor).
Simply, a professor is someone who teaches at the college/university level. If the individual changed their job to teach at a high school, middle school, grade school, etc. - they would then be referred to as a teacher, not a professor. So a professor is essentially a teacher in a university setting.
While there are always exceptions, primary and secondary school teachers typically have a bachelor's degree (maybe a master's degree). Professors typically have at least a master's degree and usually a doctorate. Those with a master's degree are often referred to as "Lecturers" rather than professors since they have not earned a doctorate.
The career progression for a professor is typically to start as an Assistant Professor, then become an Associate Professor, then "full" Professor. Somewhere between Assistant and Associate, professors can earn "tenure" which is a form of permanent appointment gained after six years or so of strong performance. There are several other more senior or honorary designations like Professor of the Practice, Professor Emeritus, Distinguished Professor, and University Professor. I am sure I missed some and I know terms vary from country to country, so please do a bit of research if you need more specific details.
Professor is a term you have to be careful about.
In the US and Canada the term professor is used for just about anyone who teaches in a university or college. That is laughable to Australians and even more laughable that students, even PhD students, address them as Prof Bullfrog when their first name is Insectivorous. You have got to be joking. When I was a post-doc in the US I would not put up with such bullshit.
In the UK, Australia and NZ the term professor is reserved for a senior academic. So a Pom or Australian professor is generally head of a university department. They have a secure job and are not on a contract. Generally no-one addresses them by title.
In Asia they follow systems more like UK and Australia. A professor is a senior academic. I am an Assoc Prof in Thailand. I do not know of any other farang in the country with my rank. I get Dr Ray which is close enough to be OK by me.