Alcohols are organic molecules containing the “hydroxyl” functional group, “OH” directly bonded to carbon. The carbon directly attached to OH is technically called the “carbinol” carbon, although this nomenclature is often not introduced in introductory classes. The carbinol carbon (carbon attached to OH), however, is the key to understanding the most common classifications we use for alcohols, that being “primary”, “secondary”, and “tertiary” alcohols.
To determine if an alcohol is primary, secondary, or tertiary, examine the carbon attached to OH. If that carbon is attached to one carbon, the alcohol is primary; two, secondary; three, tertiary. If zero carbons and three hydrogens (a unique situation) it is methanol. Hydroxyl groups attached to aromatic rings are called, “phenols”.
Note that not all functional groups containing OH are alcohols. If the OH is attached to a carbonyl (C=O), that functional group is called a “carboxylic acid”. OH attached to an alkene is called an “enol” (ene + ol). And there are other funky functional groups such as hydrates (“geminal diol”) that really belong in a separate category from alcohols themselves.
Jump to search
Alcohols are the family of compounds that contain one or more hydroxyl (-OH) groups attached to a single bonded alkane. Alcohols are represented by the general formula -OH. Alcohols are important in organic chemistry because they can be converted to and from many other types of compounds. Reactions with alcohols fall into two different categories. Reactions can cleave the R-O bond or they can cleave the O-H bond. 
Ethanol (ethyl alcohol, or grain alcohol) is found in alcoholic beverages, CH3CH2OH. 
In the Alkenes section, we already covered a few methods for synthesizing alcohols. One is the hydroboration-oxidation of alkenes and the other is the oxymercuration-reduction of alkenes. But there are a great many other ways of creating alcohols as well. 
A common source for producing alcohols is from carbonyl compounds. The choice of carbonyl type (ketone, aldehyde, ester, etc.) and the type of reaction (Grignard addition or Reduction), will determine the product(s) you will get. Fortunately, there are a number of variations of carbonyls, leading to a number of choices in product. 
There are primarily two types of reactions used to create alcohols from carbonyls: Grignard Addition reactions and Reduction reactions. We'll look at each type of reaction for each type of carbonyl. 
Alcohols are organic compounds in which a hydrogen atom of an aliphatic carbon is replaced with a hydroxyl group. Thus an alcohol molecule consists of two parts; one containing the alkyl group and the other containing functional group hydroxyl group. They have a sweet odour. They exhibit a unique set of physical and chemical properties.
The physical and chemical properties of alcohols are mainly due to the presence of hydroxyl group.