There might be a ninth planet in the solar system after all, and it is not Pluto.
Two astronomers reported on Wednesday that they had compelling signs of something bigger and farther away — something that would satisfy the current definition of a planet, where Pluto falls short.

Have you ever wondered "Where are the planets right now?"

For people interested in astrology the current  positions and movements of the planets are very important and can give you a clue into how you are feeling and how your day is going to pan out. For astronomers, it's equally important to know where the planets are so that they can observe them. For others, getting an understanding of where the Earth is in relation to the Sun and moon and planets is just, well, sort of nice to know. If you've ever sat outside at night and got into an discussion about whether that bright star is actually a planet, and if it is - "Which planet is it?", then this site might help narrow down the options!
This online orrery (Note: an orrery is a machine that shows planetary positions) will hopefully help you to understand what's going on out there.
Solar System Map of Current Planetary Positions
Both apps show a solar system map - a "plan view" of the planets laid out in the plane of the ecliptic (the flat plane in which all the main planets move about the Sun).
Dwarf planet positions are also shown - but it should be realised that these objects often rise far above and below the plane of the ecliptic. This is because their orbital planes are tilted with respect to the ecliptic - by more than 40 degrees in some cases. So be aware that just because the app may occasionally show a planet and a dwarf planet to be very close to each other in the plan view, they may, in fact, be separated by a large perpendicular distance. 
Earth's Tilt
As you may know, the Earth's axis is tilted over by 23.4 degrees and the Earth's North Pole currently points at the star known as Polaris - the North Star. The app is arranged so that the view is fixed to the stars and that Polaris is always off the top of the screen (and not shown). This means that the Earth's north pole is (currently) pointing towards the top of the screen, and the south pole towards the bottom. During the summer months of the northern hemisphere the north pole is pointing more towards the Sun and so the Earth is shown below the Sun. During the summer months of the southern hemisphere, the south pole points towards the Sun and so the Earth is shown above the Sun. 
Unlike other online orreries in which you can look at the solar system from all angles, this site always shows the same view to try and help you keep your orientation. A north/south control allows the view to be changed from looking "down" at the northern hemisphere to looking "down" (or is it "up"?) at the southern hemisphere. This allows you to tailor the view to the hemisphere you are in so that you can more easily relate the planetary positions as shown in this app with what you are seeing in the night sky. In both views the North Star is kept towards the top of the screen.
Yearly Clock - or 'Where is the Sun?'
Because the display is locked with north tilting upwards, it acts rather like a clock face in which one revolution of the Earth about the Sun is one year, and each of the constellations approximately map to months of the year with January being when the Sun is mostly in Capricorn and December when the Sun is mostly in Sagittarius, etc.
The Zodiac, Equinoxes and Solstices and the seasons