We've all, at some time or another, been that student. You know—the one who shows up to lecture still reeking of alcohol, or the one who just really needs, on a seemingly existential level, to make their opinion heard loud and clear. And in those moments, we certainly haven't given a hoot what the person behind the podium thinks.
But this is an egregious oversight—and not just because that's the person handing out your grades. Underneath the tweed and elbow patches, there's a secret fount of wisdom. So, before you pour yourself into class smelling like you just crawled out of a keg or feel the overwhelming urge to launch a diatribe, discover what your college professors are really dealing (or dealt, for the graduates reading) with on a day-to-day basis.
Your college professor was once a student, and odds are he or she is relatively adept at spotting the signs of a hangover by now. "I know you don't have 'the flu,'" says one former professor from Quinnipiac University. "You're hungover and you're terrible at hiding it."
Professor T, a former instructor from the College of Mount Saint Vincent concurs: "Does it feel like whenever you come to class somewhat impaired that your teacher always calls on you? You're probably right. One of the great joys of this job is messing with kids who come to class high or hungover."
Landing a tenured position at a college or university can land a professor a healthy, middle-class salary. However, many of the instructors at your school are barely scraping by. "Most students have no idea about the difference between full-time professors—those who have tenure or are tenure-track—and those who teach part-time, usually for poor pay and little to no health benefits," says Professor P, an Ivy League professor.
"My university doesn't have adjuncts, but the school where I earned my doctorate did. I was an adjunct there myself before I got my current job. The thing to know about adjuncts is that they're hugely overworked and hugely underpaid." And if your job isn't a cash cow, learn How to Earn $500,000 In Your Spare Time.
Though some students and professors do date, schools are increasingly cracking down on those relationships. Professor P says that student-teacher relationships are forbidden at his school, and he's glad that's the case. "It may seem hot to try to date your professors, but as someone on the other side, I can warn you that any adult who wants to date an 18-to-22-year-old is almost certainly a full-on creeper," he says.
If it feels like your professor plays favorites, you're probably right, to some degree. Quinnipiac professor R says that she definitely gets to know and like certain students more than others. "As a writing instructor, I get to know my students on a more intimate level, reading literally hundreds of pages of their thoughts, opinions, and beliefs about the world by the end of the semester," she says.
However, even students who aren't teacher's pet can still make a lasting impression. "Some students stand out among the rest for their wit, their candor, or even their constant need to challenge me on every point I make."
That boring paper you feel like you keep getting assigned semester after semester isn't your professor's way of torturing you. In many cases, professors get little say in what they teach or what they assign. "At one university, I had to design my own curriculum in a matter of days, while at another I received extensive training in a specific type of writing program pedagogy and could not deviate from the selected text, which I found a bit confining," says a former South Connecticut State University professor.
Grading papers may seem easy, but for many professors, it's one of the more time-consuming parts of their job. "If I've just received a bunch of papers and need to turn them over quickly, then it could be 4 to 5 hours a day, easily," says Professor P.
While it's nice to imagine that your professors are being adequately prepared for the classes they teach, that's not always the case. For many professors, there's virtually no job training post-grad school. "I was offered the job the day before the semester started, and thrust into a classroom with no syllabus and no guidance," says Professor R.
Expressing gratitude to your professors can go a long way. "In one of the classes I'm teaching this semester, I have a student who always thanks me right before leaving at the end of class," says Professor P. "With most students I would dismiss it as brown-nosing, but I can tell that this student is genuinely glad to have been in class. That means more than you might think."
If you think that your late paper is the biggest hassle your professor has to deal with, think again. "I had a student who was a problem the entire semester. He plagiarized, he belittled other students, he would try to text his tutor during exams, he was a misogynist and a homophobe. And then, upon inevitably failing the course, he somehow got ahold of my cell phone number and called to threaten to have me killed," recalls Professor T. "Not only that, but he made sure his memory was lasting by subscribing my work email to every newsletter and spam list he could find."
Even adjunct instructors with Master's degrees and serious professional accomplishments are unlikely to ever become eligible for tenure-track jobs. In fact, Professor P says that his Ivy League school never promotes adjuncts to full-time status. For tips on your own career track, This Is The Fastest Way to Get Promoted.
