Some banks also offer insurance products, notary services, checkbooks, and other products.
Finally, we would be remiss not to add commissions.
Many banks have referral programs for products and services which helps them generate hundreds, or thousands of dollars on a local level, and hundreds of thousands or even millions on a national level.
What Does This Mean To The Average Consumer?
Well, first, it doesn’t mean banks are evil.
They are businesses and need to make money.
Trust me, you want banks to make money, otherwise our economy would be in for a major downturn.
Profitable banks also makes for more competition, and keeps interest rates competitive. (see a list of the highest interest rates).
On the flip side, you should be aware of the fees and how you can avoid most, if not all of them.
When joining a bank, be sure to read the small print to determine which fees you can avoid.
The average customer can avoid most, if not all, fees by signing up for free accounts and maintaining a minimum balance.
It also pays to shop around for mortgage rates to find those with lower fees, and shop around for rewards debit cards and rewards credit cards to help you recoup some money from other places.
For the most part, consumers can still earn decent interest rates without paying many banking fees.
Banks offer numerous “free” services like savings accounts and free checking. In fact, they may even pay you for leaving money in the bank, and you can also boost your earnings by using certificates of deposit (CD) and money market accounts. Unless you work with an online bank, most banks and credit unions also have physical locations staffed by employees. They also run call centers with extended customer service hours.

How do they pay for all of those services? Banks earn revenue from investments (or borrowing and lending), account fees, and additional financial services. Whenever you give money to a financial institution, it’s essential to understand a firm’s business model and exactly how much they charge. But it’s not always clear how banks get paid. There are several ways for banks to earn revenue, including investing your money and charging fees to customers.

The Spread 
The traditional way for banks to earn profits is by borrowing and lending. Banks take deposits from customers (essentially borrowing that money from account holders), and they lend it out to other customers. The mechanics are a bit more complicated, but that’s a general idea.

Pay Less, Earn More: Banks pay interest at low rates to depositors who keep money in savings accounts, CDs, and money market accounts. They usually pay nothing at all on balances in checking accounts. At the same time, the bank charges relatively high-interest rates to customers who take out home loans, auto loans, student loans, business loans, or personal loans.

The difference between the low rate that banks payout and the high rate that they earn is known as “the spread,” sometimes called the bank’s margin. 
For example, a bank pays a 1% annual percentage rate (APY) on cash in savings accounts. Customers who get auto loans to buy new cars pay 6.27% APR, on average.1﻿ That means the bank earns at least 5% on those funds, and potentially much more than that. They’ll earn even more with credit cards. According to the Federal Reserve, the average annual percentage rates (APR) on credit cards is 16.88%.2﻿

Investments: When banks lend your money to other customers, the bank essentially “invests” those funds. But banks don’t just invest by disbursing loans to their customer base. Some banks invest extensively in different types of assets. Some of those investments are simple and secure, but others are complicated and risky.

Regulations limit how much banks can gamble with your money, especially if your account is FDIC insured. However, those regulations tend to change over time. Banks are still able to boost their income by taking more risks with your money. Besides investing money, banks also charge customers fees to boost their profits. 

Accountholder Fees 
As a consumer, you’re probably familiar with bank fees that hit your checking, savings, and other accounts. Those charges are getting easier to dodge, but fees still make a significant contribution to a bank's earnings.

For example, Bank of America’s Advantage Plus checking account charges a $12 monthly maintenance fee.3﻿ Over the course of a year, those fees will cost you $144. However, you may be able to waive monthly maintenance fees by maintaining a certain balance or setting up direct deposit.

Banks also charge fees for certain types of actions and “mistakes” you make in your account. If you enrolled in overdraft protection, it’ll cost you $30 or so every time you overdraw your account.4﻿ Worse, you can still pay those fees even if you opted out). Did you bounce a check? That’ll cost you, too. There’s a long list of fees or charges that come as a result of account activity, including (but not limited to):

ATM fees (including fees that your bank charges, as well as fees from the bank that owns the ATM)
Lost or stolen card replacement (and extra charges for rush delivery)
Early withdrawal from a CD
Prepayment penalties on loans
Late payment penalties on loans
Inactivity Fees
Fees for paper statements
Fees for talking with a teller if you have an inexpensive online account
Stop payment requests