Life as a student is all about sitting through endless boring lectures, working all night to meet essay deadlines and of course scraping bv on your meagre student loan, right? Well, sometimes, but it can also be a lot of fun 11 We asked some first year students to give us the low-down on student life in the UK!
Matthew Springer, University of Leeds (B.A. History and Political Science):
"One of the best things about the first year is 'Freshers' Week'. You hardly sleep all week - there are so many parties, concerts and other events! And then there's the 'Clubs & Societies Bazaar' where you get the chance to join any kind of club or society you can imagine. It's difficult not to get carried away -1 signed up for the university newspaper, and the drama and canoeing clubs!"
Sylvie Leg range, Swansea University, Wales (B.Sc. Biological Sciences):
"I'm an overseas student from France. In my country, a lot of students live at home while studying, but here almost everyone goes to university in another town. This year, I got a place in halls with most of the other first year students. It's so much fun hanging out in each other's rooms, drinking tea and ordering pizza at two o'clock in the morning! Next year, I'm going to rent a student house just off campus with four of my friends."
Sarah Miles, Keble College, Oxford (B.A. English and Modern Languages)
"I only have about ten hours of formal lectures every week, but I have to spend quite a few hours in the library doing research for essays. I also have to prepare for seminars, which are smaller interactive classes, and a weekly tutorial, which is basically a one-on-one discussion with my tutor. Oxford is a lot more traditional than most other UK universities. We still have to wear a black academic gown when we do exams and when we attend formal dinners in the college dining hall!"
Steven Howard, University of Bradford (B.A. Media Studies)
"University is hard work and I'm always skint but the social life is stormin'l My favourite hang-out is the Student Union. There's always something going on there, like a big band playing or some kind of special theme night. After a big night out, my mates and I always stop off for a kebab or a curry on the way home!" 
I think the happiest period in the life is the period when you are changing your status from a teenager to an adult. Of course it’s not easy and sometime painful, because you need to start to think and act like an adult. But this is also a period of time when you open new horizons in front of you. 

After school you have to make an important decision - to go to college, university or to start to work. I have become a student and I am happy about my choice. 

I am a student in linguistic university and I hope in future I will get a good profession. Honestly right now I have no idea, if I want to be a teacher or a linguist, but I am sure I want to speak foreign languages. 

The life of a student is very complicated. I have to control my day by myself. I have no chance to ask for a help from parents or friends, but to manage with all the problems alone. Of course I can call my parents to ask for advice, but now everything depends only on me. 

I wake up very early, cook breakfast by myself and go to university. I spend there almost the whole day and in the evening I have to cook dinner. After dinner I do my homework, read some books I have to read and write some notes. I have no time to watch TV, chat with my friends or read magazines. And honestly I love this life. 

The only thing is I would like to go to work, but now I have no chance. So I could help my parents and make some money. 

Student’s life is very interesting and deep. I enjoy every moment. This life will finish very soon and I have to work in future. So far I have an opportunity to meet new people, to communicate with smart and experienced teachers and I learn something new every day. I hope every pupil will decide what he wants to do in future and will be happy about his choice.